Frederich: God is dead and we have murdered him, what is left is gaping hole into which nihilism will find cover. Ralph: Indeed, for great is paint and God is the painter, we rightly accuse the the critic who destroys too many illusions, but maybe we have given the critic too free a reign in deconstructing age-old shibboleths. Frederich:  I think you mean that we have been to hard on the artist, he should be allowed his dreams without our constant criticism. Ralph: Yes! But also we must not forget that art has no purpose other than itself, it exists as an endless playfulness. It does not need any justification or explanation. We do not need to know why the artist did this painting rather then another one; nor how they came up with such a conceptual idea - all these things are irrelevant. Artists create because they want to express themselves through their creations. They do so simply out of love for creation. Frederich:  This sounds like a religious experience. Artist are creating for god? Ralph: No, artists make works of art to satisfy their own inner needs first before anyone else can appreciate them. They create for themselves, for pleasure. Their selfishness is good for us since they give us joy from their work. If there were no artists, if everyone was only concerned about himself/herself, humanity would lose its ability to feel beauty and wonderment. Humanity could become dull and unimaginative. So thank heavens for artists... I am sure that some day when humans finally
Frederich:  But what happens when people don’t have enough money to buy those paintings? Then they will never see them…And what if nobody ever buys anything again? What if the world economy collapses completely due to the financial crisis? Will we still be able to enjoy great artworks? Or should we instead focus on more practical matters? Like survival? Should we learn to fish better? Or perhaps hunt wild animals? Maybe we should start growing our own vegetables? Perhaps we should even learn to grow potatoes underground? I am sure that some day when humans finally
Frederich:  But what happens when people don’t have enough money to buy those paintings? That way we won’t starve anymore
Ralph:  Well then I guess it doesn’t matter whether or not we have any art at all! Because without food, shelter, clothing, water, electricity, medicine etc., we cannot live anyway. We must therefore prioritize basic necessities over luxuries such as art. Aren’t you afraid that this might happen one day though? Won’t we run out of oil sooner rather than later? Don’t you think that the current economic system is unsustainable? That way we won’t starve anymore
Ralph:  Well then I guess it doesn’t matter whether or not we have any art at all! Therefore, shouldn’t we try to find a new model which does not rely so much on fossil
Frederich:  But why would anyone want to stop producing art altogether? Why would people give up painting pictures just because there may come a time when no one can afford to buy paintings anymore? I mean, who cares about money really? If someone wants to make a picture but has nothing left for materials, he/she could always use whatever comes his/her way – like old newspapers, cardboard boxes, discarded scraps of fabric from thrift shops, broken mirror glass pieces, torn posters etc.. Therefore, shouldn’t we try to find a new model which does not rely so much on fossil
Frederich:  But why would anyone want to stop producing art altogether? These are things which most likely already exist somewhere around us anyway; they do not need to be produced artificial
Ralph:  Well, if it were only that easy…But what I am trying to say here is that art should never have been made dependent upon capitalism or any other kind of economy. Artists should not have had to compete against one another all along by selling their works at auctions or through galleries (or even online) whereby the prices of their creations depend on how many potential customers will pay for them. And artists themselves should never have needed to sell their own work either! These are things which most likely already exist somewhere around us anyway; they do not need to be produced artificial
Ralph:  Well, if it were only that easy…But what I am trying to say here is that art should never have been made dependent upon capitalism or any other kind of economy. They should instead have received enough support from society to enable them to produce their works freely and independently of having to worry about making ends meet finan
Frederich:  But wait a minute now…Let me ask you this question first though: Do you think that artists would still create great works of art without being able to earn some money out of it? Would they still paint pictures, write books, compose music or perform plays then? Or would they simply stop doing these things altogether because there was no longer anything worthwhile to express anymore? Ralph: No, I don’t believe so.