Frederich: God is dead and we have murdered him, what is left is gaping hole into which nihilism will find cover. Ralph: Indeed, for great is paint and God is the painter, we rightly accuse the the critic who destroys too many illusions, but maybe we have given the critic too free a reign in deconstructing age-old shibboleths. Frederich:  I am not sure if it was my words or yours that killed god? Ralph: The death of god is our own doing, he died when mankind became selfish and egotistical, his demise can only be attributed to ourselves. Frederick: But this is just the point! We have created god as much as we have destroyed him, perhaps we should stop creating gods so they don’t die again? Ralph: Perhaps we do need more than one god; we must create new ones to replace those we destroy. Frederich:  This sounds like a good idea until you realize how hard it is to kill off something once you have invested all your energy into making it real. Ralph: So then let us take comfort from the fact that we have built up these gods over time, thus their destruction comes slowly and surely rather than suddenly. Frederic:  We may indeed build them up but we also tear them down quickly. Ralph: Yes, but we are getting better at building them back up again. Frederick:  And the cycle continues….. The above dialogue between two characters named Frederick & Ralph (who happen
Frederich:  to share names) was written by me (the author), I am not sure if either character would agree with my interpretation or even understand what I meant for them to say. \section{Explanation}This puzzle has been inspired by the following quote:"The death of God is our own doing," said Emerson, "He died when we were able to make Him." It seems that the meaning here is that humans have killed God through their actions - which means that He will never return because humans no longer believe in His existense. But since God is an abstract concept, there is
Ralph:  nothing to prevent him from existing again as long as people keep believing he exists! Frederich:  Indeed, it seems like this idea can be extended beyond religion into other areas such as science. For example, Newtonian mechanics was replaced by Relativity Theory due to its ability to explain new phenomena; however, relativity theory itself could one day be superseded by something else... Comment: This is great work, congratulations on making it all so clear :)
Ralph:  Thanks! I think my favorite part may actually be the last paragraph (which I wrote after reading yours). Frederick:  The last paragraph really got me thinking about how even though we might not know what the next thing is going to look like, we still need to take care of things now or they won’t get better later. \begin{blockquote}Emerson:  Well, let us say then that God is dead but not gone forever. Nietzsche:  And yet, if mankind keeps killing off gods left and right, who knows? Maybe someday soon, we
Frederich:  Perhaps some future generation will have no god at all…Ralph:  …and perhaps that will make them happy. \end{blockquote}
Frederich:  Happiness seems to come from within oneself rather than being dependent upon external factors such as religion. Ralph:  Indeed – for instance, consider those people who have been raised without any religious beliefs whatsoever…Frederic:  It would seem that these individuals are able to live happily because their happiness does not depend upon anything outside themselves. Ralph:  Yes, indeed. In fact, this has become quite common among many young adults today.