Frederich: God is dead and we have murdered him, what is left is gaping hole into which nihilism will find cover. Ralph: Indeed, for great is paint and God is the painter, we rightly accuse the the critic who destroys too many illusions, but maybe we have given the critic too free a reign in deconstructing age-old shibboleths. Frederick: I am not sure if you can be called a critic when you do nothing more than destroy, it seems to me that you should create something better instead. Ralph: But how could anyone possibly replace such a grandiose creation? It would require someone as powerful as God himself! Frederic: Well then let us go back to our cave dwellings and worship our gods again; they were much kinder to us before we invented this godlessness thingy. Ralph: No, no, don’t give up so soon. Frederich:  What else did he leave behind after his death except for the conceptualization of good and evil, which has been used by mankind since forever to justify its actions, whether those actions are good or bad. Ralph: Yes, yes indeed, but nowadays there exists a problem with these concepts. We are using them to judge others rather than ourselves. Frederik: So why does everyone hate themselves all the time while lovingly judging others? Is it because people love being hated over loved? Or perhaps it is simply because most people are afraid of change. They want things to stay the same even though they know
Frederich:  That is not true at all. People do not like change, that’s what I meant. And if you think about it, it makes perfect sense. People have always liked things to be the way they already are. If something was different from normality, people would feel uncomfortable. That is why humans fear change – they prefer familiarity instead of novelty. But I am getting off topic here…The reason why human society is currently failing miserably is due to the fact that people only care about themselves when making decisions. This leads to selfish behaviour and ultimately to social d
Ralph:  Well, this might be so for some people, but I don’t agree with you. I believe that the world has changed since then and we need to adapt our thinking accordingly. In my opinion, the main issue facing us today is that people still tend to act as individuals rather than as part of a community. Even worse, many politicians try to divide communities by creating artificial conflicts (such as race or religion) which allow them to exploit those differences through politics. It seems to me that we can overcome such issues once and for all if we learn how to work together again. Such an approach will
Frederich:  Oh yes?! And what exactly do you mean by “work”? Do you think it possible to create meaningful relationships among strangers simply because they share similar interests? Or maybe because they have common enemies? Because these kinds of connections are based solely upon superficialities like hobbies and political views; they cannot last long enough to actually make any difference. On top of that, there is no guarantee that everyone involved shares the same goals anyway. For example, let’s say that you want to start a local group where members get together every weekend at your house to play board games. Ralph:  Well, I guess this could be interesting… but isn’t it more likely that people would just use this opportunity to complain about the current state of affairs rather than talk constructively about solutions? I believe that true community requires a much deeper level of understanding. Let us imagine that instead of playing games with friends from around town, you invite some family members over who live far away. Maybe even relatives whom you haven’t seen since childhood. You know that they don’t agree on everything, so you hope that they will still find something positive to discuss. But when you ask them why they
Frederich:  But what if we all have different ideas about how things should change? We might not share common values or vision for our country! Ralph:  That doesn’t mean that we can’t work towards shared visions by first establishing trust through conversations. This kind of conversation can go either way - either you will end up with a better idea of what others think (and perhaps come closer to consensus), or you may realize that you disagree too strongly to ever reach agreement. Either outcome would be useful information. In my experience, most communities do not take advantage of opportunities such as these because they lack
Frederich:  A framework for having meaningful conversations. Ralph:  I believe it starts with listening deeply to understand where people stand now. Then, after understanding where everyone stands today, we need to explore together ways to move toward shared goals. This requires courageous conversations among those willing to listen without judgment. Ideally, this process could lead to a deeper sense of community and purpose than any individual can achieve alone. Jeffrey:  It sounds like you are suggesting that we need to learn more about each other before trying to solve problems. Is that correct? Ralph:  Yes.