Carl: Marcus, we know you have been through many battles through life both with wins and defeats. We know you have also won internal battles, which would you say was more difficult to combat? Marcus: The battle which posed a greater challenge was Carl: What do you mean by that? Marcus: I meant when my son died from sickness it took me months before I could come out of depression. It seemed like there were no meaningful things left for me to live for anymore. Carl: That must be very hard to go through such pain! Marcus: Indeed it was. But eventually I came to terms with his death as well as my own mortality. Carl: How did you manage this? Marcus: I realized what really matters in life; love, family and friends. Carl: Marcus: Yes, these are indeed important values but they can only provide temporary happiness if not used wisely. Carl: So how should people use them then? Marcus: Love should always be given unconditionally without expecting anything back. Family members should never forget to show affection towards each other despite any differences or disagreements. Friends should always try to understand others even though they may seem different than themselves at first glance. Carl: This seems like good advice...
Marcus: ...but unfortunately most people don’t follow it. Instead they focus all their energy into making money so
Carl: they can buy materialistic goods which will make them happy temporarily. Marcus: But once that initial pleasure wears off, those items become useless again. Their owner has already forgotten about them due to being too busy chasing after more wealth. Carl: Marcus: People who have accumulated lots of possessions tend to feel empty inside because they lack human connections. They also find it difficult to share their belongings when needed by someone else. This is why many rich people end up committing suicide. Carl: Wow…that sounds pretty depressing. Marcus: But this doesn’t mean you shouldn’t work hard if you want something badly enough! It just means that you need to learn not to get attached to things since nothing lasts forever anyway. Carl: Marcus: Carl: I think I see what you are saying now. I guess there must be some truth to that. Marcus: Carl: Well thanks for clearing everything up. Let me ask you Marcus – do you live alone or with family/friends? Marcus: 
Carl: Marcus: Thanks so much for sharing all these details with us today. It was great talking to you. And thank YOU Carl for inviting me onto your show. You can check out my website at www.marcusbondoc.com and follow me on Twitter @Marc Carl: 1952-08-30 - 1967-11-04Dave: 1967-11-04 - present### CarlCarl was a male German Shepherd who belonged to Dave's family. He died in the year of 1967, and he was replaced by another dog named "Dave" (the current one). He is mentioned once in the episode "Bed & Breakfast", when Homer says that his grandfather had been bitten on the leg by Carl. Marcus: 1952–1967; 1989–present### DuffmanA fictional character from The Simpsons, created as an advertising mascot for Springfield's favorite beer, Duff Beer. He has appeared since Season One Episode Two ("There's No Business Like Show Business"). In the original series run, Duffman wore a blue suit with a red tie, white shirt, black shoes, and yellow socks. His face is painted onto a large paper mache head which can also function as a puppet.